<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Dedication</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="dedication" epub:type="dedication">
			<header>
				<p>To the Booksellers</p>
			</header>
			<p>Be pleased to know, most worthy, that this little book is dedicated to you in affection and respect.</p>
			<p>The faults of the composition are plain to you all. I begin merely in the hope of saying something further of the adventures of <i epub:type="se:name.person.full-name">Roger Mifflin</i>, whose exploits in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Parnassus on Wheels</i> some of you have been kind enough to applaud. But then came Miss Titania Chapman, and my young advertising man fell in love with her, and the two of them rather ran away with the tale.</p>
			<p>I think I should explain that the passage in Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</span>, dealing with the delightful talent of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Sidney Drew, was written before the lamented death of that charming artist. But as it was a sincere tribute, sincerely meant, I have seen no reason for removing it.</p>
			<p>Chapters <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>, and <span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span> appeared originally in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Bookman</i>, and to the editor of that admirable magazine I owe thanks for his permission to reprint.</p>
			<p>Now that Roger is to have ten Parnassuses on the road, I am emboldened to think that some of you may encounter them on their travels. And if you do, I hope you will find that these new errants of the Parnassus on Wheels Corporation are living up to the ancient and honourable traditions of our noble profession.</p>
			<footer>
				<p epub:type="z3998:signature">Christopher Morley.</p>
				<p>Philadelphia,</p>
				<p>April 28, 1919.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
